portfolio/README.md, before:

# Portfolio

## What is a Portfolio?

A portfolio is a showcase of your best work. Recruiters and hiring managers will look to your portfolio to gain an idea of what you are capable of.

## Portfolio must-haves

1. Your name 
2. Contact info: email & LinkedIn
3. Link to PDF of your Resume
4. 2-3 Projects to show your skill, this part you will iterate on continuously as you get better projects and more experience

# Building a portfolio

Depending on your program of study and chosen career path, you’ll want to choose a platform for your portfolio that allows you to showcase your work best.

## Web Development

- GitPages free
- [Tilda Free](https://tilda.cc/)
- [Render](https://render.com/)
- [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/)

## A simple process

For your first portfolio **keep it simple**, you can iterate and upgrade and expand it once you are done with the rest of your career course. **Strive for excellence not perfection.**

> “If I waited for perfection… I would never write a word.” – Margaret Atwood

1. Create an outline of what will go in your portfolio
2. For each project/case study
    1. Before you begin: great case studies tell a story about the work you did DO NOT simply describe your process
    2. Clearly state what someone should learn about you and your abilities after reading the case study
    3. Write an outline
    4. Get feedback and revise the outline
    5. Add details to the outline
    6. Get feedback and revise the outline
    7. Add imagery to clarify and illustrate important points in the story
    8. Design and build the layout using the prepared content

Web Dev instructors are still available to you to help with a review of portfolio pieces and deployment. Your career coach can review and give general tips on the portfolio overall, but drilling into the specifics of a case study or fixing bugs in your code are definitely best directed to the Instructors

# Be the solution to the problem

No one is going to give you a job because they want you to learn and get your feet wet. Having the approach that jobs are here to serve you will get you nowhere. Instead, **think about it like this. A job opening is a company’s cry for help.**

*The hiring manager needs help. And you’re the person who can solve their problem within their given budget. Ask yourself the question, what does this person need help with?*

They need help finding someone who: can get themselves unblocked, is willing to learn, has energy and enthusiasm, proactively seeks feedback so they don’t need to have an awkward conversation later,  can learn quickly, and is excited about working on the problem that their team specifically solves.

At the end of the day, if we boil down a job description, there are only 4 things that you could be asked to do:

1. Create
2. Maintain
3. Improve
4. Delete

**You can easily showcase the first 3 of these things with a project in your portfolio** (let’s be honest, deleting is pretty simple and straightforward). This is where “I am a proven problem solver” can really shine through. 

Take a second to mentally walk through this: you started with an idea, then you wire-framed it and **created** it. 

Since its inception, you have **maintained** its functionality and ensured that it still works to this day. As we all know, this is a dynamic industry that is always changing. As you have learned new languages/frameworks/libraries and implemented best practices, you have **improved** this project.

By adopting this mindset, you are establishing a direct connection with what the interviewer needs the ideal applicant to *be able to do* and what you *have already done*.

## Regardless of the method you choose to show your abilities, there are specific standards you must follow.

Utilize the following checklist below to ensure that your content follows the best practices and passes basic content requirements.

(NOTES: Work with your coach to get design help.
it should load quickly, make sure any external links open a new tab keeping your portfolio in their browser)

## **Best Practices Checklist**

**Content**

- Name
- Brief About Me min 2-3 sentences, max about 6-7.
- Email and/or contact form
- Link to LinkedIn
- Link to GitHub
- Links to 2-3  fully functioning and deployed applications you have built to showcase your work.
- A link to the GitHub code is great but not priority over a functioning deployed application. When you include the link to your GitHub repo be sure there is a good customized README file for that project.

**Performance**

- Desktop and Mobile [Google Lighthouse](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/overview/) scores all 100.

**HTML**

- HTML5 Semantic Elements: HTML5 Semantic Elements are used appropriately (header, section, footer, main...)
- Error pages: Error 404 page and 5xx exist.
- [Noopener:](https://hackernoon.com/prevent-reverse-tabnabbing-attacks-with-proper-noopener-noreferrer-and-nofollow-attribution-z14d3zbh) In case you are using external links with target="_blank", your link should have a rel="noopener" attribute to prevent tab nabbing. If you need to support older versions of Firefox, use rel="noopener noreferrer".
- Clean up comments: Unnecessary code needs to be removed before sending the page to production.
- HTML validation.
- HTML minified.
- HTML is compressed with gzip.

**CSS**

- JS prefix: All classes (or id- used in JavaScript files) begin with js- and are not styled into the CSS files.
- CSS validation.
- CSS combined in one file.
- CSS minified.
- CSS: No usage of @import.
- No CSS inline.

**JavaScript**

- JavaScript combined in one file.
- JavaScript minified.
- ESlint Configured & Passing
- Test Code Coverage

**Accessibility**

- Progressive enhancement: Major functionality like main navigation and search should work without JavaScript enabled.
- Color contrast: Color contrast should at least pass WCAG AA (AAA for mobile).
- H1: All pages have an H1 which is not the title of the website.
- Headings: Headings should be used properly and in the right order (H1 to H6).
- WAI-ARIA Landmarks.

**Usability**

- HTML5 compatibility check.
- Custom 404 page.
- Use friendly URLs.

**SEO**

- Google Analytics: Google Analytics is installed and correctly configured.
- Headings logic: Heading text helps to understand the content in the current page.
- Sitemap HTML: An HTML sitemap is provided and is accessible via a link in the footer of your website.
- sitemap.xml: A sitemap.xml exists and was submitted to Google Search Console.
- robots.txt: The robots.txt is not blocking webpages.
- Structured Data: Pages using structured data are tested and are without errors.
- Pagination link tags: Provide rel="prev" and rel="next" to indicate paginated content.

**Mobile**

- Mobile-Friendly Test.
- Use 'viewport' meta-tag.
- Use correct input types.
- Manual check using emulators.
- Test using real devices.

**Spot Checks**

- Broken links. Fix if necessary.
- Spelling and grammar.
- Site works on all browsers.
- Site work on all browsers on mobile.
- Static files are compressed with gzip.
- Usage of correct image formats.
- Usage of responsive images.
- Images are optimized (ImageOptim…).
- Images are cached in the browser.
- SVG files are minimized.
- SVG files are used where possible.
- Only fonts that are used are loaded.
- Browser cache is used.
- ETags are not used.
- Expires, cache-control and max-age headers for static resources are set to 1 year.
- Asynchronous loading of non-critical content.
- Tracking scripts loaded asynchronously.

## **If you need to create a better portfolio project, check here.**

Listed below are some options to help you ‘put on your creative thinking cap’. Acknowledge that **this is one of the hardest things to do**, as to be properly represented, you have to be personally invested and actually like the project.

Write down 10 project ideas that you have as you go over each section below. Then circle the top 3 ideas you believe you have based on the idea, feasibility, technical challenge & problem it solves

### Project types

- Original, from-scratch project.
- Legacy project, polish up an old assignment
- Group project.
- Open-source project.

### Open Source Contribution 101

**Contributing to an open-source project can mean a lot of different things.** It’s up to you to determine what type(s) of contribution you are most drawn to. Don’t feel like you need to limit yourself to just one type of contribution, or to just one project itself. Explore, improvise, and problem-solve!

- Why contribute
    - Learn
    - Teach
    - Network
    - Skillset
    - Resume
    - Experience
    - Job Opportunity
- What is contributing
    - **Coding**: Finding issues and fixing them. Providing different ideas to increase efficiency or include new features.
    - **Planning**: Getting involved in workshops, meetups, meetings, and community events. (This is easy networking!)
    - **Designing: Creating images, layouts, or UX/UI designs. If you are a very dynamic and creative person, this is where you belong.**
    - **Organizing: If you think of planning as putting together all the edge pieces of a puzzle, organizing is filling in the middle. In addition to workshops, meetups, etc. you could also be involved in managing submittal issues.**
    - **Writing: Documenting, email marketing, blog posting, written tutorials.**
    - **Reviewing: Pull requests, testing out new code, providing feedback, approving designs, testing UI.**
- Things to consider
    - Author
    - Being Maintained
    - Active Community
    - Audience For It
    - Outstanding issues
    - Roadmap with work todo
    - Styles & Standards
    - Proper Documentation
- What project to help
    - Improve the software you rely on
    - Improve existing skills
    - The topic that interests & motivates ex. AI
    - Gives back to your community
    - Opportunity to pay it forward
    - Find a project that fixes a problem
- Finding a project
    - https://github.com/explore
    - https://www.codetriage.com/
    - https://opensourcefriday.com/
    - https://www.firsttimersonly.com/
    - http://issuehub.io/
    - https://gauger.io/contrib/#/language/javascript
    - https://fixme.ossn.club/
    - https://up-for-grabs.net/#/
    - https://firstcontributions.github.io/
- How to contribute to open source
    - https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute

### 💡Project Ideas

- Full-stack clones of popular services such as: Spotify, Yelp, Twitter, Evernote, Netflix, Facebook, Instagram, etc. (**Even if you choose to do a clone, put your own spin on it, especially if it’s adding new/better features!)**
- What problems in your life could you solve with code?
    - Website
    - Chrome Extension
    - Mobile App ex. https://ionicframework.com/
    - Desktop App ex. https://www.electronjs.org/
- Search Public API’s repo list to see if you find anything you would like to build an application around.
    - https://github.com/public-apis/public-apis
- Did you find enough data that you could have an application consolidate the information down to solve a problem?
- Course Project ex. Youtube, Udemy, Pluralsight, Lynda, Linkedin
- Is there a business idea or project that you could work on to show your hands-on experience? ex. Freelance, family, entrepreneur
- Could you teach or mentor people?
    - Create Courses
    - Create Site to sell
    - Create a Blog
- Style Guide
    - Design
    - Coding
    - Documentation
    - Project Management
    - Accessibility
    - Versions of tech/code/language
- Open Source Code
    - Projects
    - Packages



> Remember to submit your assignment by pushing it to Github!

Commit message:

added a section to the readme in the portfolio about building the portfolio in react

portfolio/README.md, after:

# Portfolio

## What is a Portfolio?

A portfolio is a showcase of your best work. Recruiters and hiring managers will look to your portfolio to gain an idea of what you are capable of.

## Portfolio must-haves

1. Your name 
2. Contact info: email & LinkedIn
3. Link to PDF of your Resume
4. 2-3 Projects to show your skill, this part you will iterate on continuously as you get better projects and more experience

# Building a portfolio

Depending on your program of study and chosen career path, you’ll want to choose a platform for your portfolio that allows you to showcase your work best.

## Web Development

- GitPages free
- [Tilda Free](https://tilda.cc/)
- [Render](https://render.com/)
- [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/)

## Showcase React Projects
Given that you have learned the MERN stack (MongoDB, Express.js, React, Node.js), it's a fantastic opportunity to leverage your React skills in building your portfolio. React is a popular and powerful library for building dynamic user interfaces, and showcasing your portfolio with React can demonstrate your ability to create modern, efficient, and responsive web applications.

Why Choose React?
Interactive UI: React allows you to build interactive and dynamic user interfaces, which can make your portfolio stand out. A polished, user-friendly interface is crucial for creating a strong first impression.

Component-Based Architecture: React's component-based structure enables you to create reusable components, making your code more organized and maintainable. This will not only make your portfolio easier to manage and update but also demonstrate your ability to use industry-standard practices.

Performance Optimization: React optimizes performance through its virtual DOM, ensuring that your portfolio runs smoothly even with complex interfaces and high interactivity.

Ecosystem and Tools: With a rich ecosystem of tools and libraries, React can be easily integrated with other technologies like Redux for state management, React Router for navigation, and various UI component libraries to speed up your development process.

## A simple process

For your first portfolio **keep it simple**, you can iterate and upgrade and expand it once you are done with the rest of your career course. **Strive for excellence not perfection.**

> “If I waited for perfection… I would never write a word.” – Margaret Atwood

1. Create an outline of what will go in your portfolio
2. For each project/case study
    1. Before you begin: great case studies tell a story about the work you did DO NOT simply describe your process
    2. Clearly state what someone should learn about you and your abilities after reading the case study
    3. Write an outline
    4. Get feedback and revise the outline
    5. Add details to the outline
    6. Get feedback and revise the outline
    7. Add imagery to clarify and illustrate important points in the story
    8. Design and build the layout using the prepared content

Web Dev instructors are still available to you to help with a review of portfolio pieces and deployment. Your career coach can review and give general tips on the portfolio overall, but drilling into the specifics of a case study or fixing bugs in your code are definitely best directed to the Instructors

# Be the solution to the problem

No one is going to give you a job because they want you to learn and get your feet wet. Having the approach that jobs are here to serve you will get you nowhere. Instead, **think about it like this. A job opening is a company’s cry for help.**

*The hiring manager needs help. And you’re the person who can solve their problem within their given budget. Ask yourself the question, what does this person need help with?*

They need help finding someone who: can get themselves unblocked, is willing to learn, has energy and enthusiasm, proactively seeks feedback so they don’t need to have an awkward conversation later,  can learn quickly, and is excited about working on the problem that their team specifically solves.

At the end of the day, if we boil down a job description, there are only 4 things that you could be asked to do:

1. Create
2. Maintain
3. Improve
4. Delete

**You can easily showcase the first 3 of these things with a project in your portfolio** (let’s be honest, deleting is pretty simple and straightforward). This is where “I am a proven problem solver” can really shine through. 

Take a second to mentally walk through this: you started with an idea, then you wire-framed it and **created** it. 

Since its inception, you have **maintained** its functionality and ensured that it still works to this day. As we all know, this is a dynamic industry that is always changing. As you have learned new languages/frameworks/libraries and implemented best practices, you have **improved** this project.

By adopting this mindset, you are establishing a direct connection with what the interviewer needs the ideal applicant to *be able to do* and what you *have already done*.

## Regardless of the method you choose to show your abilities, there are specific standards you must follow.

Utilize the following checklist below to ensure that your content follows the best practices and passes basic content requirements.

(NOTES: Work with your coach to get design help.
it should load quickly, make sure any external links open a new tab keeping your portfolio in their browser)

## **Best Practices Checklist**

**Content**

- Name
- Brief About Me min 2-3 sentences, max about 6-7.
- Email and/or contact form
- Link to LinkedIn
- Link to GitHub
- Links to 2-3  fully functioning and deployed applications you have built to showcase your work.
- A link to the GitHub code is great but not priority over a functioning deployed application. When you include the link to your GitHub repo be sure there is a good customized README file for that project.

**Performance**

- Desktop and Mobile [Google Lighthouse](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/overview/) scores all 100.

**HTML**

- HTML5 Semantic Elements: HTML5 Semantic Elements are used appropriately (header, section, footer, main...)
- Error pages: Error 404 page and 5xx exist.
- [Noopener:](https://hackernoon.com/prevent-reverse-tabnabbing-attacks-with-proper-noopener-noreferrer-and-nofollow-attribution-z14d3zbh) In case you are using external links with target="_blank", your link should have a rel="noopener" attribute to prevent tab nabbing. If you need to support older versions of Firefox, use rel="noopener noreferrer".
- Clean up comments: Unnecessary code needs to be removed before sending the page to production.
- HTML validation.
- HTML minified.
- HTML is compressed with gzip.

**CSS**

- JS prefix: All classes (or id- used in JavaScript files) begin with js- and are not styled into the CSS files.
- CSS validation.
- CSS combined in one file.
- CSS minified.
- CSS: No usage of @import.
- No CSS inline.

**JavaScript**

- JavaScript combined in one file.
- JavaScript minified.
- ESlint Configured & Passing
- Test Code Coverage

**Accessibility**

- Progressive enhancement: Major functionality like main navigation and search should work without JavaScript enabled.
- Color contrast: Color contrast should at least pass WCAG AA (AAA for mobile).
- H1: All pages have an H1 which is not the title of the website.
- Headings: Headings should be used properly and in the right order (H1 to H6).
- WAI-ARIA Landmarks.

**Usability**

- HTML5 compatibility check.
- Custom 404 page.
- Use friendly URLs.

**SEO**

- Google Analytics: Google Analytics is installed and correctly configured.
- Headings logic: Heading text helps to understand the content in the current page.
- Sitemap HTML: An HTML sitemap is provided and is accessible via a link in the footer of your website.
- sitemap.xml: A sitemap.xml exists and was submitted to Google Search Console.
- robots.txt: The robots.txt is not blocking webpages.
- Structured Data: Pages using structured data are tested and are without errors.
- Pagination link tags: Provide rel="prev" and rel="next" to indicate paginated content.

**Mobile**

- Mobile-Friendly Test.
- Use 'viewport' meta-tag.
- Use correct input types.
- Manual check using emulators.
- Test using real devices.

**Spot Checks**

- Broken links. Fix if necessary.
- Spelling and grammar.
- Site works on all browsers.
- Site work on all browsers on mobile.
- Static files are compressed with gzip.
- Usage of correct image formats.
- Usage of responsive images.
- Images are optimized (ImageOptim…).
- Images are cached in the browser.
- SVG files are minimized.
- SVG files are used where possible.
- Only fonts that are used are loaded.
- Browser cache is used.
- ETags are not used.
- Expires, cache-control and max-age headers for static resources are set to 1 year.
- Asynchronous loading of non-critical content.
- Tracking scripts loaded asynchronously.

## **If you need to create a better portfolio project, check here.**

Listed below are some options to help you ‘put on your creative thinking cap’. Acknowledge that **this is one of the hardest things to do**, as to be properly represented, you have to be personally invested and actually like the project.

Write down 10 project ideas that you have as you go over each section below. Then circle the top 3 ideas you believe you have based on the idea, feasibility, technical challenge & problem it solves

### Project types

- Original, from-scratch project.
- Legacy project, polish up an old assignment
- Group project.
- Open-source project.

### Open Source Contribution 101

**Contributing to an open-source project can mean a lot of different things.** It’s up to you to determine what type(s) of contribution you are most drawn to. Don’t feel like you need to limit yourself to just one type of contribution, or to just one project itself. Explore, improvise, and problem-solve!

- Why contribute
    - Learn
    - Teach
    - Network
    - Skillset
    - Resume
    - Experience
    - Job Opportunity
- What is contributing
    - **Coding**: Finding issues and fixing them. Providing different ideas to increase efficiency or include new features.
    - **Planning**: Getting involved in workshops, meetups, meetings, and community events. (This is easy networking!)
    - **Designing: Creating images, layouts, or UX/UI designs. If you are a very dynamic and creative person, this is where you belong.**
    - **Organizing: If you think of planning as putting together all the edge pieces of a puzzle, organizing is filling in the middle. In addition to workshops, meetups, etc. you could also be involved in managing submittal issues.**
    - **Writing: Documenting, email marketing, blog posting, written tutorials.**
    - **Reviewing: Pull requests, testing out new code, providing feedback, approving designs, testing UI.**
- Things to consider
    - Author
    - Being Maintained
    - Active Community
    - Audience For It
    - Outstanding issues
    - Roadmap with work todo
    - Styles & Standards
    - Proper Documentation
- What project to help
    - Improve the software you rely on
    - Improve existing skills
    - The topic that interests & motivates ex. AI
    - Gives back to your community
    - Opportunity to pay it forward
    - Find a project that fixes a problem
- Finding a project
    - https://github.com/explore
    - https://www.codetriage.com/
    - https://opensourcefriday.com/
    - https://www.firsttimersonly.com/
    - http://issuehub.io/
    - https://gauger.io/contrib/#/language/javascript
    - https://fixme.ossn.club/
    - https://up-for-grabs.net/#/
    - https://firstcontributions.github.io/
- How to contribute to open source
    - https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute

### 💡Project Ideas

- Full-stack clones of popular services such as: Spotify, Yelp, Twitter, Evernote, Netflix, Facebook, Instagram, etc. (**Even if you choose to do a clone, put your own spin on it, especially if it’s adding new/better features!)**
- What problems in your life could you solve with code?
    - Website
    - Chrome Extension
    - Mobile App ex. https://ionicframework.com/
    - Desktop App ex. https://www.electronjs.org/
- Search Public API’s repo list to see if you find anything you would like to build an application around.
    - https://github.com/public-apis/public-apis
- Did you find enough data that you could have an application consolidate the information down to solve a problem?
- Course Project ex. Youtube, Udemy, Pluralsight, Lynda, Linkedin
- Is there a business idea or project that you could work on to show your hands-on experience? ex. Freelance, family, entrepreneur
- Could you teach or mentor people?
    - Create Courses
    - Create Site to sell
    - Create a Blog
- Style Guide
    - Design
    - Coding
    - Documentation
    - Project Management
    - Accessibility
    - Versions of tech/code/language
- Open Source Code
    - Projects
    - Packages



> Remember to submit your assignment by pushing it to Github!
